# Cumulative Reflection

I entered Iowa State University during the peak of COVID. My first year was almost exclusively online including [CPRE 288](/projects/roomba) Embedded Systems I and CPRE 281 Digital Logic (the prerequisite for [CPRE 381](/projects/mips)). Coming into college without knowing anyone and without being able to meet people in classes was different from what I had become used to in high school. I quickly started looking for clubs and discovered the [Prisum Solar Car club](/projects/prisum) which appeared to be a group of people who worked hard and had fun building cool projects, so I joined. That first year was very educational, yet very entertaining as I like to find the fun in what I work on. CPRE 281 introduced me to ways of assembling logic gates that I had not considered before to create complex machines, and CPRE 288 challenged my abilities in embedded development.

As I continued through CPRE 381, I took my understanding of digital logic and discovered how to build a fast MIPS processor from scratch in VHDL. This was one of my favorite classes because we built the bridge between software and hardware from nothing. I had already learned AVR assembly for a personal project prior, and I was taking EE 201 at the same time learning introductory circuit design, so being able to take that class knowing what sits above (assembly, C, ...) and how the physical transistors work was really interesting.

I decided in the spring to branch out and look more into the computer science world of theory for a bit in COMS 331 Theory of Computing. This was a very interesting class because it challenged me to redefine my idea of what computing is. The stated goal of the class was to learn "how to prove whether or not the solution to a problem can be computed by any computing machine we could ever design" regardless of how small we made transistors, etc. One of the final topics centered around the halting problem which intrigued me greatly because I love exploring optimizations, how old games were made using such limited resources and how wasteful we are now with far more resources, but it was interesting to discover that an optimizing program cannot find the "perfect" optimization of all programs, even with all the time in the world. There will be at least one program for which a simpler solution exists than it produces because such an optimizer would solve the halting problem. I found that I enjoyed the theory as much as the hardware itself.

I then wanted to continue on that learning journey a bit further and since I had now learned the basics of computational theory, I set out to discover how quantum computing fits in by taking COMS 434X the following semester. Evidently that question requires a far more complicated answer than I was expecting, but that class was the one class that really stretched my mind every day. There was always one part that left me pondering until the next class, it was truly a firehose of information, and it was wonderful.

At the same time as COMS 434X, I saw an Honors Seminar listed under the title "You Are Your Own First Responder". I enjoy helping others and preparedness very rarely a bad idea, so I enrolled and enjoyed it. The premise of the class was a mass casualty incident has occurred (tornado, earthquake, fire, etc.), and first responders are not there yet and may not be for some time. What do you do? We covered bleeding control (tourniquets & wound packing), burns, splints, fire extinguishers, and more. It also covered the emotional aspects of a large scale incident and how to respond best to others' shock or emotional distress. It was a great class to offset the theoretical intellectual stimulation of quantum computing with a physical class using my hands. It ended with a large-scale exercise in an unused dorm where we triaged a group of theater and honors volunteers covered in wound makup throughout a three-story structure.

Currently, I am taking [CPRE 488 (Embedded Systems III)](/projects/zedboard) which is now rivaling CPRE 381 and COMS 434X for my favorite class at ISU. Our group of 5 students use an FPGA to tackle various challenges combining hardware components (this current lab uses a foam dart turret), VHDL, assembly, C, and a modified linux kernel. It's a great culmination of most of my technical classes at once, merging the hardware and software together to design a single solution to a problem.

Throughout my journey, I've also been very involved with Prisum, going on Rayce (our week-long competition) in the summer twice, first learning the club, then improving their systems, and now as I prepare to leave, write documentation and hand off knowledge to new members by teaching weekly software trainings. Teaching them has also taught me a lot as they ask questions I may not know yet, or as I pay attentions to which questions get asked I learn more about how to teach different concepts better. It's a continuous process, and I have discovered that I very much enjoy the teaching aspect of my work with the club. In fact, my latest project for the club, the [Playground boards](/projects/playground), are an excellent example of my fascination with learning (and teaching). I discovered that new members were having difficulty with our limited supply of development boards, so I designed a board that would allow them to experiment and explore on their own and built a collection of them to be used in future software trainings even after I leave the club.

I have had a wonderful time at ISU, and I'm not done yet as I'm going to continue and get my Master's in Computer Engineering starting concurrently in the fall.

[< Back to Documents](/docs)