# Ethics Reflection
A code of ethics is very important both in life and the workplace. Every day, you will be faced with decisions you will have to make, from something as small as "Should I get up in the morning and go to work on time?" to something as large as "Should we continue designing this product in spite of the privacy concerns obviously apparent in its eventual use?" Everyone has a code of ethics that they live by every day whether they realize and can verbalize it or not. Whenever you make a decision, you are deciding to be led by some line of reasoning. If you decide to get up in the morning and get to work on time, it could be for a variety of reasons: you need the money, you're scared of the opinions of those around you, you enjoy seeing your coworkers, you enjoy your job, or many more, but which reason propels you reveals your code of ethics. For me personally, I try to follow one of the oldest codes of ethics: the Bible. "Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for men" (Colossians 3:17, NIV).

In our CPRE 394 class, many different ethical issues were discussed including one case study regarding Amazon's Echo devices allegedly storing audio recordings without consent and possibly making those available to unknown parties. Part of caring for other people is to respect what they do not wish to share. In such a situation where recording is a necessity of the device (e.g. constantly listening for a key phrase), the company should be as cautious as possible regarding where that data goes. They should notify users that they will be recorded and exactly what happens with that recording. The recordings should be localized to never leave the device if at all possible, but if external processing is required, prompt deletion of the recording is important. You are being entrused with data that is potentially very personal, so you should treat that with a high degree of care. It should also be taken into consideration how hard it is to get at the data. Any online storage system has the potential to be hacked, so the most secure method of dealing with personal data is, of course, to avoid handling it at all to the maximum extent possible. The class strongly agreed that privacy concerns should be well-addressed and the idea of recordings being continuously saved was concerning.

Specifically with regard to the "Virtue of Ethics" document provided in class, integrity, honesty, and responsibility appear to be the three virtues most related to this case study. In the words of C.S. Lewis, "Integrity is doing the right thing, even when no one is watching." This relates very closely with how companies deal with data they gather. Often, nobody really watches how companies handle data they collect, so it is up to them to have integrity. It is hard for a third party to verify that they are following their privacy policies and taking appropriate care with the data provided to them. This also involves reporting instances where they have failed (accidental release of data whether by an employee or by an outside intruder) in a timely manner. Honesty is similar, but deals more with trust. Honesty requires companies to accurately report how the data is being stored, how long it exists before being deleted, and tell the truth about how well they are following their own policies. Responsibility requires them to take steps to repair broken trust when something inevitably fails and construct an appropriate policy which will effectively secure personal data.

[< Back to Documents](/docs)