# General Education Reflection

I have always had an interest in law. In a way, it's the programming language that governs our society. Also, I may want to have the option some day of starting my own business (looking at the [Playgrounds](/projects/playground)), so I decided to combine the two and add an Entrepreneurship minor. Since this also fulfilled the breadth requirement for honors, win-win all around.

Entrepreneurship goes hand-in-hand with my engineering classes; as I learned how to design and build solutions to problems, my entrepreneurship classes taught me how to consider their market value. How do you design a product that works, yet also will sell? Many engineers can find a solution to a problem, but taking into account the entire feasibility of the solution including marketing, financial, and manufacturing aspects are far less common. These classes showed me how to take my ideas that I may or may not have tried to implement yet, perform a Feasability Analysis on them, and design with that in mind.

For my 6 open credits in Entrepreneurship minor, I selected two accounting classes which covered business law. ACCT 215 and its sequel, ACCT 416. These were very interesting electives as they taught me a lot of what goes on behind the scenes in business deals and taught me a lot of the "legalese" in contracts. I would recommend a basic contract law course to any engineer because so much of what we do is influenced by contracts in some way. The easy example is an employment contract, knowing when a contract for employment actually exists, whether or not a contract is enforcable, and knowing how to handle breach of contract are all scenarios best to avoid, but would be very beneficial to be aware of. Our projects will probably end up in a customer product at some point, so knowing general product liability law is also interesting as it impacts design decisions just as much as the feasbility analysis from entrepreneurship does. Just as programs govern our computers, contracts govern our society.

My final significant elective was the First Responder seminar mentioned in my cumulative reflection. That was a very interesting class which was a great break from the technical electives while having the potential to be of critical importance at some point in my life. All of these classes both served to be useful to me in the future, but also give me breaks from the mental gymnastics of my technical and theoretical classes.

[< Back to Documents](/docs)